Situation
The decision between Berkeley Law and Vanderbilt Law may be made for me. There are a variety of things attracting me to both schools. First and foremost I am operating under the assumption that I can get Berkeley to agree to the Army’s tuition limit of $28,000. If they do not agree to meet me at this tuition, I am unable to attend as I cannot draw student loans and the Army will force me to attend elsewhere. I am currently waitlisted from Vanderbilt, which will agree to the tuition. I believe I can get off of the waitlist with a well-written letter to admissions and support from Professor Newton. If I do this, there will be a large expectation that I attend. Georgetown has not admitted me, but with the interview I have between a 25-40% chance of acceptance. I am a single 25 year old and will receive my paycheck the entirety of law school. I will graduate in 2026 at 28 and will be eligible to leave the Army at 34 in 2033 pending ADSOs for continuing education/PCS. The decision is essentially balancing where I want to live 25-28, future opportunities, and what person I want it to make me. 
Cost of Living/Convenience/Comfort Zone/Network
Convenience of living. Berkeley has a disadvantage due to cost of living for pretty much everything, but especially housing and the tradeoff of square footage and price. I will likely look for an apartment where I can spend less than $2,000. I am heavily considering living in San Francisco where I will have more opportunities to enjoy nightlife and have a good time. I think I will likely be more involved with extracurriculars here as a means of getting out of my shell and meeting more people, which could be a really good thing for me.
         The obvious drawback to moving to Berkeley is going across the country to a city I am unfamiliar with and not having any network. This movement outside of my comfort zone, while inconvenient, will allow me to stress my systems and create a new network and friendships for myself on the west coast. Obviously Vanderbilt and living in a house that I already own with 3 bedrooms and 1440sf that’s less than 15 minutes from the law school would be a seamless transition in terms of friendships and routines. I have a gym I already go to and know the area well. Friends can visit and it’s fairly convenient to fly home if I need to. 
If I move to Berkeley, then I’ll likely live in a 500sf apartment, so I wouldn’t keep much stuff. I would have to move a lot of stuff to storage unless John continues to rent out the house. It will also be inconvenient and expensive to fly home from Berkeley whenever I need to. While not technically geographically isolated, there are additional barriers to leaving. It may be good for me to move to a new city that I don’t have as many ties to socially already. I love Nashville and it is a great time, but it could be too good of a time. DC I would be really close to family and friends from growing up. I also intend to practice in the area at some point later on.
Living Options
At Berkeley or DC, I could continue to grow wealth by purchasing a home (or assuming someone else’s VA loan with a low rate). I could also do this in Nashville. DC housing I could live in the in-law suite at Kathy and Bob’s house until I found a place if I didn’t want to recon. I could also live in Oakland, Berkeley, north of Berkeley, over the hill or in San Francisco. Once I can create my own schedule, I could reverse commute from San Francisco a few days a week. Weather in the Bay Area is undoubtedly the best. Vanderbilt BAH $2,076. At two years in my house, I will drop PMI and reduce the payment to around $1350 on 3/2.5 for 1440sf. I can realistically rent this out for $2100. I can also use VA loan at any location. 
School
	Rank
	BAH 1L
	Annual 1L
	BAH 2L/3L
	Annual 2L/3L
	State
	Berkeley
	9
	$3,501
	$94,135
	$3,756
	$105,889
	CA
	Georgetown
	14
	$2,679
	$84,283
	$2,922
	$95,881
	DC
	Vanderbilt
	17
	$2,076
	$77,047
	$2,268
	$88,033
	TN
	Name
How far can the name take me? I honestly feel like the Berkeley name could take me further than the Vanderbilt name could. Obviously, both would be great. Georgetown has a very strong name in DC and a lot of connections. I feel like it would slot me perfectly as an Army trained attorney. Vanderbilt has a very strong FLEP network within the JAG corps. Berkeley just all in all has a great name and an Infantry Officer from West Point with Berkeley Law is an immediate attention grabber. 
Extracurricular
At all schools, I could interact with their ROTC programs and help them out. I’m least likely to do this at Vanderbilt due to pre-established routines. I would get very involved at Berkeley and probably not very involved at Berkeley or Vanderbilt beyond Veterans’ Clubs and Bar Review (Thursday night law school trip to bar). 
Opportunities
There are a ton of opportunities at every school. Berkeley has the most opportunities on the West Coast and possibly nationwide due to its reputation. Vanderbilt would be the best for the midwest/south. Georgetown would be the best for DC/Maryland, probably Boston. 
Vanderbilt’s unique connection to FLEP affords opportunities as far as the imagination goes. I could study in Venice and practice law in a separate city for a semester. I could easily write a student note and have impact through that or participate in a variety of clubs. 
Berkeley has a strong nuclear engineering program separate from the law school. I could help to advance the field and my career by publishing a student note in this regard. Berkeley is also regarded as the top intellectual property law school. I hope to get into IP law later on, so this could open doors and networks for me. They have student legal individual placements (SLIPs?), which means I can do things like help veterans with their disability paperwork, which could set me up for success. All schools likely afford this opportunity. 
Georgetown has a very strong government and veteran network that would tie me into DC. Georgetown and Vanderbilt are especially strong with international law and national security law, which as of right now, do not particularly interest me. Vanderbilt is especially strong with the FLEP network. Berkeley creates a new network. All schools seem to have a strong clinical program, but the course work and curriculum besides criminal law and intellectual property (seeing what I actually like) is probably not distinct enough to be a factor in school selection. 
Nightlife and Find a Wife
Nashville is really fun. Probably too fun. I may not grow a lot here. Maybe I will learn a lot, but I could easily get trapped in the Nashville lifestyle and not grow up. The area has a lot of nurses and Vanderbilt students. The people in Nashville are generally more attractive than San Francisco from what I’ve seen. DC is probably in between but more of a rat race than Nashville. I do fine here but it isn’t a very serious city. DC has a lot of NGO and government workers, probably the worst prospects for a wife. Georgetown is also the biggest law school so the sheer volume of really smart classmates could work in my favor. I wouldn’t rise to the top necessarily. At Berkeley, I’d be a big fish in a small pond. This is probably the only time in my life I would live in a big city like San Francisco (or outside of it that close).
Culture
Berkeley definitely has a weirder student population. They also may end up having the most impressive student population. There may be a self-selection bias where the people I have met in Nashville are cooler because they were in place for me to meet them, where at Berkeley I’ve been exposed to other potential students and the ones that were willing to be overly involved in accepted students weekend. This could also contribute to Berkeley having the most friendly student population. Berkeley would likely contribute to the most diversity of thought for me. 
Berkeley and Vanderbilt are both collaborative cultures. Berkeley has a pass or fail grading system that would put me in a great spot to take a knee and explore the area. Vanderbilt has a generous curve and grades would likely not be an issue. My understanding is that Georgetown is a much more competitive environment (at least reputation-wise), so it would likely be the most of a grind. Grades ultimately won’t matter wherever because of the experience as a JAG after law school. 
Intangibles 
By granting me admittance, Berkeley has given me a large vote of confidence. That seriously draws me to the school because they think I would be a good fit. Because of this, I was able to see classmates and get fired up about the school. Vanderbilt didn’t extend me that same courtesy, which makes me less fired up about them and leaves me with more questions about their school. 
Class Sizes/Educational Environment
Berkeley does its 1L in mods and super mods. One (maybe two) classes are 90-person sections and the others are a subdivision and 30-person. The professors gave the impression they were really good. They were super intelligent and articulate. I have the unjustified impression that they are not as accessible as Vanderbilts. I would probably put Georgetown behind Vanderbilt in this category. 
school
	1st yr class
	faculty
	min faculty
	students
	min students
	S:F %
	% min
	University of California—Berkeley
	278
	284
	61
	1565
	477
	5.5:1
	30.48%
	Vanderbilt University
	155
	143
	30
	673
	129
	4.7:1
	19.17%
	Georgetown University
	593
	812
	116
	2603
	586
	3.2:1
	22.51%
	Georgetown is the frontrunner of remaining options. Georgetown is a hard decision because it is so close to family. DC is a clearly fun place with a significant allowance for cost of living. I would be near home and able to see my nieces and nephews a lot more. Georgetown is a much more competitive school culturally. It’s also ranked well and has a larger network than the other schools with a much larger veteran contingency. It does not have the same shock and awe factor as a veteran with Berkeley Law.
Summary
Berkeley is a new adventure out of my comfort zone, will give me diversity of thought with a few minor inconveniences to help me grow. I will be embarking on a new adventure and meeting new people, while expanding my network across the country.
Vanderbilt is a great school with a lot of opportunities where I can comfortable take stride into law school and enjoy life for the next 3 years. 
Georgetown is close to family and friend support with a strong network in DC. Also a very safe and fun option with a great school. 
Of the current options, Berkeley is the number one followed closely by Vanderbilt. Berkeley not agreeing to tuition triggers full force for Vanderbilt. Georgetown would be third, but hasn’t given any information. William & Mary and FSU are in reserve. 
Grades won’t matter anywhere, and I’ll have 6+ years of service to look for a job. I think I would be able to get a clerkship or a big law job if I really networked hard. I might just want to ride out 20+ and then take a GS job or go back to school and see what else I might do like get an MBA. 
I will be happy wherever I end up. (maybe not FSU or W&M)


________________


Random Reddit poll I did. lol
  
________________

The other school dilemmas. 
In order from least to most tempting.
University of Alabama is a great school. I don't know if I could ever attend instead of Berkeley or Vanderbilt though.
If I get into UNC, I have to weigh going to a school that is not ranked as highly as Berkeley or Vanderbilt but is on the East coast. It’s in the Raleigh-Durham area and has significant upsides in terms of quality of life. I know little about the law school.
University of Florida should I be accepted is rumored to have professors that are very accessible and invested in student success, which is very appealing to me. I think Vanderbilt is in a very similar situation. Berkeley has faculty that is incredibly gifted and full of people that are insanely smart, but they are less accessible to students. I am different from other students in that I will likely more actively seek mentorship, so I think this is a little less applicable to me.
Would I consider BU? Move to Boston and it’s a new city on the east coast. It’s a great school. It does not have the same name as the other schools. I didn’t love BU in high school when I visited due to its dispersed campus. I would imagine its law school is a bit more confined to a space.
If I get into UVA, now I have to look at the area and the school and try to get a feel for the undergrad population. I know I loved the campus and the beautiful area as a high school student, but I would still have to visit.
If I get into Columbia, then I would be weighing a very serious decision with a phenomenal, ivy league school. I don’t like New York City, but I think I would have to choose here based on the street cred alone. Much of the upsides of Berkeley with fewer drawbacks. The school culture may not be what I am looking for. I would likely do a visit and additional analysis, if they were willing to meet my tuition at all. I honestly don’t think I’ll be admitted, so I am not worried about it.
Stanford, I won’t have acceptance and funding by the time the Army’s deadline is. It might be possible if I transitioned from Berkeley to Stanford. 






________________
Run off/First Draft
Berkeley 
Pros
T9
Great name
Pass fail
Strong social justice 
On campus nuke and relationship with intellectual property law network and nuke
National recognition
It’s a new area
Cons
Not as fun
Not as accessible
Far from family
Pass fail
Maybe too liberal even for me


Vanderbilt
Pros
T17
Good name
collegial/collaborative atmosphere - strong community
Know nashville, have routine
Don’t have to rent out house, move, storage, etc.
Easily accessible to family
Friends can visit
National recognition
Cons
Too fun
Grades
Not a top 10